VM -  a digitized version of a physical computer  that can run programs and operating systems, store data, connect to networks and do other computing function

Choice of operating system is Debian
Debian is stable, lightweight and fast performance as a desktop OS or server builder and it is also easy to use for new users / inexperienced users.

Difference of Rocky and DebianOS
Rocky:
	- Rocky is more stable than debian and supports enterprise application
	- Does not have an upgrade path
	- It comes with many security  in-built features that helps protect from cyber attacks.
	
Debian:
	-Released and supported by community and members still maintain it
	-Has more software/packages available
	-Comes with easy installation package

Purpose of VM:
	The main purpose is to operate multiple operating systems at the same time, from the same piece of hardware. Without virtualization, operating multiple systems, it would require two separate physical units

Difference of aptitude and apt:
	Apt and Aptitude are both package managers but aptitude is more upgraded than apt. Apt is a low level package manager while Aptitude is a higher level package manager.
	In terms of upgrading, apt does upgrade most important packages and leaves the least important ones.
	Aptitude adds user interface that allows user to interactively search for a package and install or remove it.
	
What is AppArmor:
	AppArmor provides Mandatory Access Control security. For example an application can take photos by accesing the camera application, but then the administrator denies the privilege, so the application will not be able to access the camera application. If a vulnerability occurs, AppArmor blocks the application so that the damage does not spread to the rest of the system.


USER

checking of user if included in user42 and sudo
	getent group user42
	getent group sudo

to add user:
	sudo adduser username

to add new group:
	sudo addgroup groupname
	
to assign new user to new group (group)
	sudo adduser username groupname

to delete user from a group:
	sudo gpasswd -d username groupname
	
setup for strong password:
	sudo nano /etc/login.defs


HOSTNAME:
check the hostname:
	uname -a

modify hostname:
	sudo hostnamectl set-hostname "sampleroot" // restart and name of root should be sampleroot

to view partition:
	lsblk

LVM
	Logic Volume Manager that is used to gather a whole bunch of hard disks into a group of logic volumes that you have more control over and has more flexibility

SUDO:
to check if sudo is properly installed:
	dpkg -l |grep sudo

add user to sudo group
	sudo adduser "username" sudo

explain sudo:
	sudo means superuser do. it is a command that runs commands without the need to change your identity for example to root. The implementation can be seen in /etc/sudoers.d/

check the /var/log/sudo/ to check if the history if using sudo command is being updated.

UFW
To check if ufw is installed:
	dpkg -l|grep ufw
UFW Servce:
	sudo ufw status
to add new port:
	netstat -na | grep :8080
to allow rules on new port:
	sudo ufw allow 8080
to delete the port:
	sudo delete (num)		

SSH is started:
	sudo service ssh status

what is an SSH:
	Secure Shell is an encrypted protocol used to administer and communicate with servers
		
-make sure that "ssh rplata42@localhost -p 4241" will not work


LVM
	Logic Volume Manager that is used to gather a whole bunch of hard disks into a group of logic volumes that you have more control over and has more flexibility

Script Monitoring:

Cron: 
	a system that helps Linux users to schedule tasks. it can be a shell script or a simple bash command. It helps in automating any routine tasks.

stop cron:
	sudo service cron stop

start cron:
	sudo service cron start

	
https://mathieu-soysal.gitbook.io/born2beroot/correction-preparation/correction-sheet
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/born2beroot-imad-mimouni
